Hello everyone and welcome to part three O.P. project solutions lecture and this lecture we're going
to be coding through an example solution to the card wargame project.
Let's hop to the editor and get started.
OK here we are at the file so let's scroll down and get started with the object oriented programming
of the tech class.
So the first thing we always need in a class is the in it special method to initialize this and it will
always take in self.
And just to make things obvious I'll add a print statement in here usually don't have print statements
like this but we'll just add it anyways and we'll say creating new ordered deck and then what I'm going
to do is say self got all cards is equal to in what I could do is have the logic be inside the initialization
or had the logic be outside the initialization.
So what I mean by that is I'm going to have a global variable here called my cards and set that equal
to a list comprehension that is tuple for the suit and the rank of the cards and say for S and suits
for or sweets for r in rings.
So that's one way to do this.
You could have also done this with a nested for loop.
So just walk through that example you could set something like for are in ranks for s in suites and
then have some you could say my cards pens s are a tuple there with my cards being equal to some blank
list.
So this is the exact same thing as this.
So keep that in mind if you need to pause a screen and kind of break down the list comprehension and
compare it to this nested for loop.
That's all that's happening here.
But I could then pass in my cards over here during the initialization step.
But instead of doing that I'm just going to grab the list comprehension this and then put that in here
OK.
So that actually creates the deck and it all happens inside the class.
Again you don't have to do it this way there's many ways to actually do this but we'll just create that
here.
So that's a new order deck if I want to shuffle the deck I'll pass self.
And then let's add in the print statement just to make things really obvious since this is a project
to learn with.
It will say shuffling deck and I will call the shuffle function on that list which is self-taught all
carts and then I also want to be able to split the cards in half.
So I will create a new method split in half that takes in self and then what this is going to do is
going to say return self are all cards.
And I know there's 52 cards in a deck so I need to go from the beginning all the way to index 26 up
to not including it and then solve all cards from 26 onwards.
So that will return a tuple of the split cards.
Up next is the hand class.
So this is the hand class and each player is going to have a hand and they can add or remove cards from
that hand.
So it's going to happen here because I will initialize this with self and then cards and then I will
say self-talk cards is equal to cards.
And then let's also have a method here a special method for printing out the hand so pasand self.
And let's return using print formatting.
Contains link cards and will say that format.
And let's return the length of self-talk cards.
That way I know how many cards is in the player's hand.
That's what's going to happen if I ever print a hand.
It's just going to report back how many cards that player has in their hands.
Then finally I want the two methods that are add or remove.
So create an add method which takes in self and then the added cards.
So it's going to be a list and I'm going to say self-talk cards dots and I want to not append but extend
my list with the added cards.
So in the middle of the table there are the cards that the computer played the cards that you played
will be a list.
And then we will extend that list.
Maybe you decided to do it a different way.
That's totally fine too.
And then we'll have a method called remove card that will just be self and this will pop off the top
card here or at the very last card I should say cards the pop and the.
Now we have the class player.
So let's play on that.
First off I want to initialize the player so we'll say underscore underscore in it's self and a player
should have a name and they will also have a hand and then it will say self but name is equal to name.
And I will also say soft hand is equal to and let's create some more methods here.
Or create a play card method and the play card method is going to have a variable called drawn card
which is just self to hand the remove card.
So remember remove card from that hand objects are the players going to get a hand object.
When we actually create it I can call remove card and add a card from the hand object which in my case
just solved by hand.
So this is sometimes a little bit confusing because he's kind of see these multiple calls here but it's
just self hand that remove card.
And then let's have a print statement so we really know what's going on here.
I'll say bracket's has placed brackets.
And then let's say that format and I will say self-taught names.
So that's the player name has placed and then we'll put in the drawn card.
So whenever I play a card it will say player has placed and then whatever card I drew and then we can
also prints in the line here so that we are canceling or printing so much stuff doesn't actually get
stuffed with a bunch of commands.
We can read it better.
And and finally I want to return the card I drew just the drawn card.
The next method I want is some method to remove the war card.
So say remove underscore war cards self and then what's going to happen here is I'll have a local variable
called War cards said equal to an empty list and I'll say for x in range 3.
So both the computer player and you pass two cards and they're the same rank that we have war.
So I'm going to need something to actually move the three top or cards.
So I'll say for x in range 3 or cards pens self hands cardstock hot.
So it's actually happening here.
Well if I match with the computer I need to grab those war cards and I will grab them as a list and
return them as a list then I'll say for x in range 3 which basically means for these three cards.
Take the war cards and append the self-taught handout cards that pop and we could have also done that
with remove.
It's really up to you.
There's so many ways to do this that you shouldn't feel obligated to do it exactly like I did it.
So here we see hands hand that cards that pop.
But have also done is just remove card which is self-taught carts that pop.
So again not cards that pop that should be the exact same thing as me saying remove card so I could
have done this remove card.
That's the exact same thing.
Choose whatever makes most sense to you.
Usually you'd probably want to actually take advantage of the method but we'll leave it the other way
for now in case this may be a little more clear for the user but it's really up to you.
And then I also want to have a method here called still has cards and all this does.
Now we can add an some documentation here or a docstring.
This will return true.
If player still has cards left because remember when a player runs out of cards then the game's over.
So I'm going to do this return the length of self-taught hand that cards whoops that should be H.
Is not equal to 0.
So just return true if the player still has cards left.
OK.
So we just create a whole bunch of functions.
Let's quickly review all of them.
So starting from the very top of the deck number we have these to help release what I do here is I create
this object self to all cards.
And that's just this giant list of all the cards in the deck.
Then I can shuffle all cards in the deck and then I can split that second half.
And note when I split the second half I actually return a tuple which means I can use tuple and packing
to grab the first half a deck and then the second half of the shuffled deck then I have the hand class.
Now what this does is it just reports back.
How many cards I have here in this hand that I can add cards to the hand which is extending extension
excuse me and then remove card which pops up card off.
Then I have the player class the player has a name and one of those hand objects they can play a card
which means they just remove a card and it tells you what card they place down and then it returns that
drawing card will never move or cards which means if I have war present then I will call range 3 and
remove those cards again I can use cards that pop or I can just call that remove card set to whatever
is more clear to that I have the left still has courage which just returns true if the player still
has cards.
So now let's actually say welcome Tuor and begin to use all three classes to do this.
So let's kind of mark down what we have to do first to do this.
What I have to do is create a new deck and split it in half.
So let's do that.
That should be either create so create a new deck object set it equal to the and let's zoom in here
a little more so we can see what's going on or towards the bottom.
Let's make some space for us.
So I create a deck object and I'm going to call the shuffle method on that deck and that's in place
and then I'm going to use tuple in packing to grab two halves of the deck half one half two and that's
going just going to be split in half.
And then I want to create both players create the computer player which is going to be a player objects
called computer.
And then it's going to accept the hand object made out of the first half of the cards.
And then for the human player we want them to provide their name.
So we'll say input.
What is your name.
Questionmark.
And then we'll call this object user that will be a player object with that human provide a name and
hand is just going to be half to
and then basically war essentially plays itself.
So it's such a simple game that there's no strategy to it you just keep flipping the cards check who
won and then take the cards and if they match you play war and then just check who won the war.
In that case let's actually make this kind of automatically play.
So I will say total rounds.
Let's not make this a comment is equal to zero.
And then I will also check the war counts.
And see if that's equal to zero.
And basically what I'm going to be doing is automatically playing this game for both the human player
and the computer since they essentially don't have to make any decisions.
That's how simple a game war is.
He will say while user still has cards and the computer still has cards we will add onto the total rounds.
So a total rounds plus equal one and I will print out time for a new round.
And then I also print out.
Here are the current standings.
And then what I'm going to end up doing is saying Crantz user that name plus the counts and then actually
want to grab how many player or cards are left.
In that case that's just the actual length.
So I will say has to count plus and will cast it to a string.
There's many ways you could do this.
You could also have built in your own SDR special method inside of this.
And we can say user right hand the cards and we're going to do the exact same thing for the computer.
So let's do that as well.
But a set of user name it will be comp or computer and a set of keys or that hand that cards this will
also be called.
All right.
Very simple.
And then we're going to say just tell them bouffe
play a card and we will print's any line.
So that's just a printing setup of the game we are going to represent the cards that are on the table
that's in between the player deck and the computer deck with the list will say table cards is equal
to an empty list.
And then when we actually play cards we'll take the computer card the card and say comp play card method
remember that returns the card and then also have a player card the card and say user play card and
then I want to add that to the actual table cards list which means I'll do something like table cards
a pen the C card.
You need to use a pen since it will be a single card.
And I also want to say table cards pens the player card.
Then after that I want to check if there's a war.
So if C-card of one is equal to the card of one I'm going to add one to the workout site.
Say colon and war count says clus equal one.
And the reason I have to use this indexing for one is because remember we scroll all the way back up
to how we define cards.
Cards are just tuples themselves.
So cards are just tuples to have this suit value.
And then the ranking in the ranking is what I want to actually compare.
So that's an index one which is why scrolling all the way back down when I actually have the cards to
compare to each other I want to grab their rankings and compare it to each other which is why we had
the indexing one.
OK.
So that means we have war.
So I'll say Prince war and then I will grab the table cards and I'm going to extend the table cards.
Now a user remove war cards so that just takes the top three cards they have available.
And then I'm going to do the exact same thing for the computer.
So extend comp da remove or cards.
So I grabbed the war cards now and then I want to check who has the higher rank.
So if ranks let's say if ring X at the index.
SEE card 1 is greater than or let's say less than the ranks at the index position of the card.
One will say user the hands add table cards and then we'll say else we'll add it to the computer's hand
and this doesn't take into account a double war situation in a double war situation.
We'll just say default the computer wins again you could keep adding more logic if you wanted to.
All right.
So let's actually break this down and it kind of explain what's going on here before we continue.
This first if statement at the very top is checking the computer Kurd's ranking versus the player card
ranking.
And if that occurs then I have a war.
So I want to say plus ones the actual work count and I print out war of the con. And then the cards
on the table remember so far.
It's just two cards.
The initial computer card and the initial player card and going to extend it with three cards from each
deck three cards from the user deck and then three cards from the computer there.
And then it will say this number of ranks is that very top list where you have all the ranks right here.
So the ranks are conveniently in order which means I can compare the index position and the greater
index position counts for the higher rank and then scroll all the way back down here.
What I'm doing with this index call off of this ranks list is where asking where is the index for this
particular ranking and where is the index for this particular ranking.
So where is the index of the computer card in the Rick's List.
Where is the index of the player card on the Rick's List.
And if this the computer card is less than a player card then the user gets all the table cards.
Else the computer's going to get all the table cards.
So the player is only going to get it when the computer card ranking is less than theirs on that war
otherwise the computer gets all the card.
So even in the case of a tie we'll just let the computer have all those cards.
We could add more logic to check for a double war situation but we won't worry about that for now.
Just to keep things very simple and then I need an else statement to go along with this initial statement.
So so far I've checked for war.
That's kind of the hard part.
The easier part is if there is no war then all I have to do is directly compare the actual cards.
And that's essentially the code I have right here.
So I can just copy this and paste it and that's all I have to do because in this case I don't have war.
So I just need to compare C-card one and play card one and then add the appropriate cards.
And then what I'm going to do after all of this has been done meaning this while loop has finished executing
so the user still has cards and the computer still has cards.
Eventually one of them is going to run out of cards.
I want to print out how many rounds it was.
So I will say Prince.
Game over.
Number of rounds Colin and then we can just say Khama or I can say plus the string representation of
total rounds and then I can also say Prince Oh war happens I'll say plus the string of the war counts.
I'll say plus times that we can report back how many times how many rounds we had and how many times
we had war.
So let's save this.
I have this all under notes that pi.
OK so looks like the majority of our code is done.
But before we actually run this it's always a good idea.
It's actually going to do a quick pass over and see if we're missing anything or not thinking of anything
correctly.
So if I go all the way to the top can kind of check on this and saying from random import shuffle that
looks OK.
These two look ok.
Class deck all the methods in each of the classes.
In it self to all cards.
And it looks like I'm actually missing a statement here.
So for in sweet pursuit are in rinks.
Shuffle looks OK split in half.
That one's looking OK.
Class hands in it the string add remove cards that's all looking OK.
Player in it's looks OK.
Play card.
That also looks ok.
Remove your cards.
So an issue that may arise here.
Just remove your cards is that if I end the game on a war I may not actually have three cards left.
So what I mean by that is the computer has most of the cards and you have two left and you happen to
draw war.
You may get an an index error when calling for range 3.
So let's actually add a little bit more code here to check for the war cards so I will say if the length
of self-taught Handcock cards is less than three I will return all the cards which is just going to
be self hand cards.
So I would just return all the cards as a list.
I won't even bother popping anything off of them and then I'll have the actual For loop become an else
statement so we can do this else for this return that.
So now let's save this continue on still highest cards that check makes sense to me.
Game play.
We just went through all of that so it should be OK.
We check if both players still have cards to keep running this loop.
We take the computer card the user card added to the table cards.
We check to see if there's war.
Otherwise we just check those individual cards and then we play the game.
OK let's run this and see if it works.
I'm going to open the terminal here and then I have this under Stop pie.
So I will just call Python notes up high to enter.
Looks like it's starting off OK.
What's your name will say Jose enter.
And it looks like the game actually works so we say game over a number of rounds 170 rounds were happened
16 times.
And right now we're actually not reporting who won which isn't so great.
So let's actually report back who won.
And the way to do that is just report back their length so we'll print out computer heads and then let's
check how we can grab.
How many computer cards there are left.
So that's the comp still has cards.
We can actually report this back itself.
So say computer has
was sort of saying.
Peter Housel say the computer does the computer still have cards.
Question mark and then we'll print back comp still has cards.
We'll just turn this into a string.
This will be either be true or false.
So that will be a string and then we can do the exact same thing for the player and this or report back
who won the human player still have cards.
This will end up being user.
OK so let's save that.
Run this again.
Say Jose is the name and then looks like the computer still has cards truce the computer won that time
130 rounds war happened 16 times.
Let's run this one more time to make sure things are working.
Shuffling the deck will say new and then computer won again.
Let's try to make sure the computer doesn't always win.
And great.
So the human still has cards.
True an interesting enough war happened zero times and it was one in just 36 rounds.
OK great.
Do you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
This is a very challenging project.
So if you weren't able to get it on your own especially given that we just learned about object oriented
programming don't worry about it too much.
We don't ever have to do something this complicated.
In jingo a lot of that works already done for us.
We just need to know the basics of adding methods to objects.
We won't be doing anything this complicated when we talk about Django and building web applications.
Again any questions.
Make sure to check out the solutions up-I file and check out the Kewney forums.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.